[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hi, I'm Dr. Theresa Bullard
host of "Mystery Teachings."
Today We're going to meditate
on the archetypes of Justice
and the Hanged Man.
Together they help us with
the principles of equilibrium
and making sacrifices in life.
Justice supports us with
weighing decisions and taking
action towards the highest
good, while the Hanged Man helps
us to surrender to
divine will, hanging
new perspectives in life.
Here's a formula to
follow for invoking
these two archetypes,
Justice and the Hanged Man,
into your life.
We'll first work with
one card at a time,
beginning with Justice.
Once you're ready, find the
Justice card in your deck
and take it out.
Place this card in front
of you at eye level.
So if you have a meditation
stool or a cushion,
you can sit on that
in front of a table
and then place the card
upright on the table.
Get yourself into a relaxed
position and a light meditative
state.
Take several deep breaths.
Relax your body.
Begin to quiet your mind.
Empty your mind, and bring
yourself into a positive
and/or a neutral
state of being, one
where you don't feel disturbed
either mentally or emotionally
by anything.
Just bring yourself
into that state
of calm, peace, and relaxation.
Once you've established that
peace, now open your eyes
and look at the image of the
Justice card for a while.
Keeping your eyes open for
about five to 10 minutes,
study its imagery,
its symbolism.
Take in all the details.
Memorize the imagery
of this card.
Notice things that you maybe
haven't noticed before.
Look for subtle details.
And really study these
images and symbols.
Contemplate their
meaning as you do.
I'll remain silent now
for the next five minutes
as we now meditate on the
symbolism of the card.
It's now time to take
it inside and to work
with it in your mind.
So now close your eyes and work
with the image of the Justice
key within your mind
for another 10 minutes.
Recreate the image in your mind.
Build it up.
Bring in all the details,
all the color, all the sense,
the energy, the way of
expressing that we see
within the beings in this card.
Imagine that the frame of
the card is like a doorway
and the imagery of the
card is on the other side
of that doorway.
Once you've firmly established
this image within your mind,
now you're going to walk
through that doorway
and let it come to life.
Move into the
scenery of the card
and allow it to take on a
three-dimensional virtual
reality type of experience.
Let Justice come
alive and animate.
And just observe for a while.
What does she do?
How does she behave?
Feel the energy that
Justice emanates.
And perhaps she has
a message for you.
When you feel strongly
connected with this energy
and it's fully alive
within your mind,
the next step is to
merge with Justice.
Become Justice.
See her come alive within you.
Feel yourself wearing
the robes of Justice,
the crown of Justice, holding
the sword and the scales,
standing or sitting
between the two pillars.
And when you feel
integrated with this energy,
now you're going to
sit up in a chair
and actually take on
that posture of Justice.
Physically assume her archetypal
form and body position
with your right hand
holding an upright sword
and your left hand
holding the scales.
And from this position, you're
going to say this affirmation--
I am the daughter of
the Lords of Truth
and the ruler of the balance.
My heart is true and pure.
My actions are just.
Allow that affirmation to
reverberate through your being,
to awaken your cells, to vibrate
throughout your whole being
and soul.
And let it integrate.
And then when you're
ready we're now
going to do the same process
with the Hanged Man key.
So take the Hanged Man
key out of your deck.
Place it in front of you where
you can sit on your meditation
stool and meditate upon it.
Begin by studying
it with your eyes
open for five to 10
minutes, meditating
on the imagery, the symbols,
studying all the details,
taking it all in and memorizing
it, noticing subtle things,
contemplating the meaning.
And the next step will be to
bring it inside for 10 minutes.
You're going to work
with the Hanged Man key
with your eyes closed.
Within your inner mind,
recreate the image.
Imagine that the frame
of the card is a doorway,
and the Hanged Man, hanging from
his tree, is on the other side.
Build up this image firmly
and strongly within your mind.
Bring all the colors,
all the details in.
And work with that in your inner
mind for another 10 minutes.
And then when you feel
it's firmly established,
you're going to let
it come to life.
Walk through the
doorway into the scenery
and let it take on a
three-dimensional reality
around you.
Use all five of your
senses to engage with it.
Observe it.
Feel the energy and the ways
of being of the Hanged Man.
Notice what he does.
Does he have any message?
Or does he just hang there
in silence and suspended
animation?
And when you feel firmly
connected with this energy,
next you're going to
merge with the Hanged Man.
Become the Hanged Man.
Feel the Hanged Man
come alive within you,
and see yourself as him.
When you feel this
integrating within you,
now you're going to physically
lay down on your back
or, if you are
really into yoga, you
can take an inverted position.
But it's OK to just
lay down on your back
and take on the
posture of Hanged Man.
Assume his archetypal form,
putting your right leg
stretched out straight while
you cross your left ankle
behind the right thigh.
And also, fold your arms behind
your back with the elbows
out to the side.
And once you're
in this position,
you're going to say
the affirmation,
I am the spirit of
the mighty waters.
I am the quiet pond.
I surrender to the
universal mind.
Not my will, but thine.
Feel that affirmation,
that energy
reverberate throughout your
being, activating your cells,
awakening its energy within you.
Now, when you're
ready, we're going
to place both the Justice
and the Hanged Man cards next
to each other and meditate
upon them together.
We're going to put Justice on
the left and the Hanged Man
on the right.
As you meditate
on them together,
notice how they contrast
with one another.
But notice, also, how
they complement each other
and how they connect together.
Justice stimulates your
discernment and equilibrium,
while the Hanged Man
stimulates your ability
to shift perspectives as well
as to access a state of samadhi
or transcendence.
Finally, we want to
take these energies
and express them into our outer
life so that they can manifest.
So some things to do are
to bring the primary colors
into our life--
for example, green
and blue-- and
bring it into your
environment or into the color
of your clothing.
You can also continue
to meditate daily
upon the symbols and the
images for the next week
as well as using the
affirmations that we just did.
Now, contemplate the
meaning of each card
and how it applies to your life.
And watch for the archetypes
to appear in your life,
whether through your dreams
or through synchronicities,
and then analyze the
messages that they're
trying to share with you.
And pay special attention
to how you personally embody
these strengths and weaknesses
of each one of these cards,
and consciously work to make
improvements in these areas.
Realize, again, that when
we're working with archetypes,
they will set forces
in motion in your life.
So if you're going
to engage with this
in an experiential way,
then, again, really
commit to seeing it all
the way through, working
with each card in their proper
order, not skipping any steps,
and going all the way through
to the end of this series.
Really give it your attention.
By actively engaging with
the symbols of each key,
we're using these as
communication tools
and doorways to our true self.
So remember to also keep track
of your dreams, your insights,
what energies get set
in motion in your life,
because they're going to
help you learn about yourself
through this journey.
And to really get the
most out of the tools,
it's about putting
this into application.
Journal your reflections.
Really notice what
you're feeling,
what you're experiencing
as these energies
awaken in your life.
And then working with
these archetypes,
the more we do this, the more
it reorganizes and rewires
both our brain and
our soul's framework.
And as we become aware
of these archetypes,
then we can more consciously
perceive them at work
within our lives.
And this energizes us at that
atomic and cellular level,
creating that magical
body so that we
can become more conscious
versions of ourselves.
And through this,
we'll manifest more
of our potential and our
multi-dimensional essence.
Join me again as
we explore further
into the 22 archetypes
of Tarot and how
they can help us to make our
big shift in consciousness.